# Automatic Speed Breaker
 The objective of our solution is to create a safer and more efficient environment for emergency vehicles, ensuring that response time (RT) is not compromised and that the health of patients or victims is prioritized. Our smart model involves wireless communication protocol between a transmitter placed inside the emergency vehicle and a receiver installed near the speed breaker without external wi-fi network or cellular networks. When an emergency vehicle enters the detection field, the Transmitter inside the vehicle sends a signal to the receiver. This activates the system, which triggers mechanism to turn the speed breaker, ensuring a uninterrupted path for the vehicle The hydraulic pumps act as support beams, replacing traditional cement structures by rising when the speed breaker is retracted for stability and lowering when in bump mode to maintain its height, ensuring durability in both modes. Safety indicators have also been installed to minimize confusion for other drivers: LCD display; countdown timer; buzzer alert; ground light alerts (for low light conditions) Once the emergency vehicle has exited the range and the receiver stops receiving the signals, and the speed breaker smoothly reverts to its original position. To enhance safety, failsafe mechanisms are integrated—if a malfunction occurs, the speed breaker defaults to its original position to prevent accidents. The system also includes multi-layered security to prevent unintended activation by non-emergency vehicles, using unique authentication signals for authorized vehicles only.  Our idea primarily supports SDGs 3, 9, and 11 by improving emergency response, advancing urban infrastructure, and enhancing mobility, while also contributing to SDGs 13 and 17 through emissions reduction and collaborative implementation. The existing solutions depend on human adjustments, which can be unpredictable. The hardware is built to withstand harsh weather conditions (rain, snow, dust) and requires minimal maintenance, ensuring long-term reliability.  Human-dependent systems (e.g., traffic wardens manually clearing paths) are prone to errors, delays, and road rage. Some of the more innovative solutions include speed cushions. However, in some countries, such as Turkey, it may not be possible to design a speed cushion that all emergency vehicles can pass through, as the size of ambulances and fire trucks are different. Our model, involving wireless communication and automated control, eliminates these limitations by providing a dynamic and responsive speed breaker system, removing human intervention and manual errors with miscommunication
